Add changelog entry for ppxlib.0.33.0 release (#2615)
ocaml/ocaml.org: data/changelog/ppxlib/2024-07-25-ppxlib-0.33.0.md

---
title: Ppxlib 0.33.0
tags: [ppxlib, platform]
changelog: |
  - Fix a bug where `Code_path.main_module_name` would not properly remove
  extensions from the filename and therefore return an invalid module name.
  (#512, @NathanReb)

  - Add `-unused-type-warnings` flag to the driver to allow users to disable
  only the generation of warning 34 silencing structure items when using
  `[@@deriving ...]` on type declarations. (#511, @mbarbin, @NathanReb)

>   - Make `-unused-code-warnings` flag to the driver also controls the generation
>   of warning 34 silencing structure items when using `[@@deriving ...]` on type
>   declarations. (#510, @mbarbin, @NathanReb)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Make `-unused-code-warnings` flag used with the driver also control the generation
  of Warning 34 silencing structure items when using `[@@deriving ...]` on type
  declarations. (#510, @mbarbin, @NathanReb)
```

Although "Add `-unused...` flag to the driver" makes sense (Add...to), "Make `-unused...` flag to the driver" doesn't: (Make...to) 

Are you making `this code` work with the driver? or when "used" with the driver?

Also, for both li 9-11 and 13-15, does "...allow users to disable only the Warning 34 generation, silencing structure items when using..." In other words:
1. Is Warning 34 a specific warning where a capital letter would clarify that?
2. Does this generation silences structure items?
3. ...or does it generate "Warning 34 silencing structure items" ... when it's "using ... on type declarations"?

(I think it's #3... as "warning silencing" in this document means something that silences warnings, correct?)

Author: Hmm you're write I think I copied "Add flag x to the driver that controls" from the item above and failed to properly edit it.

Let me give you a bit of context so we can figure out how to properly phrase this.

The flag existed before this release, we just modified it's behaviour to control other features.

We can add a capital 'w' as it is indeed a specific compiler warning, identified by its number.

It's poorly phrased and a bit long but we could say that the flag controls the generation of extra structure items that are emitted solely to silence (i.e. to locally disable) Warning 34.

I think my original intent was the following:
```md
- Make the `-unused-code-warnings` driver flag also control the generation of Warning 34 silencing structure
items when ...
```

Does that look good enough?

Would you prefer a simpler phrasing, maybe something along those lines:
```md
- Make the `-unused-code-warnings` driver flag also control Warning 34 silencing for type declarations
  with `[@@deriving ...]` attached.
```

Reviewer: Oooh yes! The second one is great! Perfect!

```
- Make the `-unused-code-warnings` driver flag also control Warning 34 silencing for type declarations with `[@@deriving ...]` attached.
```

  - Driver: Add `-unused-code-warnings=force` command-line flag argument. (#490, @mbarbin)

>   - New functions `Ast_builder.{e,p}list_tail` that take an extra tail

Reviewer: Does there need to be a verb here, like "Add new functions" or "Create new functions"?
All other items in this list start with a verb

Author: You're right, I'll add that!

  expression/pattern argument parameter compared to `Ast_builder.{e,p}list`, so
  they can build ASTs like `a :: b :: c` instead of only `[ a; b ]`.
  (#498, #502, @v-gb, @NathanReb)

  - Fix `Longident.parse` so it also handles indexing operators such as
  `.!()`, `.%(;..)<-`, or `Vec.(.%())` (#494, @octachron)

>   - Add a `special_function'` variant which directly takes a `Longident.t`
>   argument to avoid the issue that `Longident.t` cover distinct syntaxic classes
>   which cannot be easily parsed by a common parser (#496, @octachron).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Add a `special_function'` variant that directly takes a `Longident.t`
  argument in order to avoid the issue where `Longident.t` covers distinct syntaxic classes
  that cannot be easily parsed by a common parser (#496, @octachron).
```

Is this still correct?
Question: Can these "distinct syntaxic (syntactic?) classes" never "be easily parsed..."
OR ... are these specifically classes that can't be easily parsed?

Author: Would the following work:
```suggestion
  - Add a `special_function'` variant that directly takes a `Longident.t`
  argument in order to avoid issues with `Longident.t` covering distinct syntaxic classes
  that cannot be easily parsed by a common parser (#496, @octachron).
```

Reviewer: Looks good! 

Just double checking that it's "syntaxic" rather than "syntactic."

Reviewer 2: `syntactic` is probably more correct. Another option would be to drop the grammar description:

>  Add `special_function'` variant that directly takes a `Longident.t` argument to avoid ambiguities when parsing generic `Longident.t`

Author: Ouh yeay my bad I missed that!

  - Keep location ranges consistent when migrating `Pexp_function` nodes from 5.2+
  to older versions (#504, @jchavarri)

  - Fix `-locations-check` behaviour so it is no longer required to pass `-check` and
  can enable location checks. (#506, @NathanReb)
---

The Ppxlib dev team is happy to announce the release of `ppxlib.0.33.0`.

> The main feature of this release is a series of improvement to flags controlling
> the silencing of unused value/module/type warnings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This feature's main feature is a series of improvement to flags controlling
unused value/module/type warnings silencing.
```
Does the above work?

Author: I think you made a typo but with `This release's main feature`, it does work! I'll change it!

The `ppxlib` driver generates warning silencing items to prevent `[@@deriving ...]`
generated code to trigger unused code warnings. Three warnings are disabled that
way:
- Warning 32: unused value
- Warning 60: unused module
- Warning 34: unused type
The first two are disabled for values and modules generated by the deriver while
the third is disabled for the types in the type declaration to which the
`[@@deriving ...]` attribute is attached.
This feature was added a long time ago to avoid manually disabling those
warnings when working with derivers that generate a set of values and modules
only to use a subset of those. Alternatively, the unused type warning silencing
was added to allow defining an alias type only to be consumed by a deriver (e.g.,
``type error = [`Not_found | `Invalid_arg] [@@deriving to_string]``).

> We since then believe that we should not disable warnings lightly and this
> behaviour makes it difficult to find and remove deadcode. The right approach in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We since then believe that we should not disable warnings lightly, as this
behaviour makes it difficult to find and remove deadcode. The right approach in
```

those situations should be to fix the PPX derivers so that they are more
configurable and can be used without triggering such warnings.
We will start to move toward removing this feature, but since it is still useful in
some places, we came up with a plan to do this iteratively.
In `ppxlib.0.31.0` we added the `-unused-code-warnings` driver flag and the
`?unused_code_warnings` `Deriving.V2.make` optional argument to control whether
to silence Warnings 32 and 60. When both are set to `true`, by the user and the
deriver authors, the warnings are not silenced. As of `ppxlib.0.33.0`, these also

> control the silencing of Warning 34 (unused type). The `-unused-code-warnings`
> flags can now be passed `force` to disable warnings silencing, regardless of the
> derivers opting in. This allows users to test whether their codebase and their

Reviewer: ```suggestion
control the silencing of Warning 34 (unused type). `force` can now be applied to the `-unused-code-warnings`
flags in order to disable warnings silencing, regardless of the
derivers opting in. This allows users to test whether their codebase and their
```
Even if you don't like this suggestion, should it be "applied" or "passed" -- same with li.100

Author: I like the suggestion! It should be `passed` here. I'll change it here and at line 100!
